# Final Project Proposal
For this final project, I plan to create an AI to play Color Filler, which is a fun game I remember playing with some of my friends via messenging apps. Filler is a game that begins with a board full of colored squares. Each player begins by owning one square in opposite corners and they choose a color each turn. When they choose a color, any square adjacent to their territory that has this color will be added to their territory. Groups of adjacent squares with the same color that are adjacent will all be added to their territory. You are not allowed to change into the color your opponent is currently on. The game continues until all of the squares belong to either player's territory, and the winner is the player with the most amount of squares claimed.

This game was pretty fun for me to play, and it seemed pretty complex to completely figure out. Strategically, the game is about claiming space and denying your opponent from gaining space (Usually I would try to claim area around the center and then expand in a way that does not let the opponent move forward much. There would be a lot of squares closer to my starting square that I would not claim, but as long as I blocked my opponent from getting their, I could just claim them whenever I wanted.) Since there are limited moves, I thought a computer would probably be able to do pretty well at the game just by using a Monte Carlo method.

In the first week, I plan to implement the game in Cinder, which will include all the visuals and the logic for playing the game. This will probably involve the game being able to be played manually between two players. While I may leave some extra features for week 2, the game should be fully playable and by week 1. In week 2, I plan to implement the AI for playing the game with multiple levels of difficulty (this will most likely involve simply changing the depth of the Monte Carlo algorithm). This will allow a player to play against the AI. I think the AI should be good enough to make it very difficult for the human player to win. This will most likely use a Monte Carlo algorithm. If I have more time and the game is not solved by the Monte Carlo algorithm, I may use another algorithm (e.g. Q-Learning algorithm) to also play the game and train it, perhaps using the Monte Carlo AI. This would be pretty interesting since I would then be able to compare the performances the the two algorithms.
